# ILI9225

This is a driver for the [ILITEK ILI9225][] TFT screen, available from various outlets online.

[ILITEK ILI9225]: http://www.ilitek.com/page/about/index.aspx?kind=27

## Constructor options

The constructor for the ILI9225 takes a table that the screen's methods will be added to.

These methods use properties under `pins` within that table to access the screen:

- `pins.rs` for the Register Select pin (sometimes called the Command/Data switch)
- `pins.cs` for the Chip Select pin
- `pins.rst` for the Reset pin (cycled when initializing the screen)
- `pins.led` for the LED backlight

By default, these are set to pins 2, 8, 4, and 1, respectively.

There are also a couple of parameters that can be set that will control the speed the system is initialized to when calling `screen:init()` (or `screen:initspi()`, which is called by `screen:init()`, see below):

- `cpufreq` will set the CPU's frequency: if this is not defined, it will default to `node.CPU160MHZ`. If you want the CPU to run at half frequency, you can set this to `node.CPU80MHZ`; if you want the initialization procedure to leave the CPU frequency alone, you can explicitly set this to `false`.
- `clock_div` is the clock divider that will be used when setting up SPI with [`spi.setup()`][spisetup]: the default value is 2 (meaning that the clock will cycle at 40MHz, which is about two orders of magnitude faster than what's listed as the maximum supported frequency on the screen's datasheet, but in practice is the actual fastest speed the ILI9225 can handle).

[spisetup]: https://nodemcu.readthedocs.io/en/master/en/modules/spi/#spisetup

## Additional methods

If you're doing something tricky with your hardware that requires changing the SPI and/or GPIO configuration at some point after running the initial `screen:init()`, you can call out to `screen:initspi()` and/or `screen:initgpio()` to re-initialize the system's interface to the screen without having to keep the entire register initialization procedure.

Also, if you're looking to control the screen beyond the methods implemented directly by this driver, you can use `screen:setreg()`.

### screen:initspi()

Initializes the SPI system for use with this screen. (See notes about `cpufreq` and `clock_div` above.)

### screen:initgpio()

Sets the GPIO pins used to run the screen to OUTPUT mode.

### screen:setreg()

Takes a table of byte values (divisble by 3) and sets every register defined by the first of three bytes to the value defined by the next two bytes.

This is used internally by most of this driver's methods; end developers shouldn't need to use it unless they're doing something fancy with the hardware that isn't implemented in the current version of this driver, like partial driving or vertical scrolling. (See the [datasheet][] for details on how to implement these.)

# Implementation details

The primary reference for this driver was [Tom Vijlbrief's script for driving the screen via netcat][tomtor], with some supplemental glances at [Microyum's fork of the driver that inspired Tom][microyum]. (There's also [a DRM driver for it in the Linux kernel tree][linux] based on the same upstream.)

[tomtor]: https://github.com/tomtor/ESP-8266/blob/master/tft565.lua
[microyum]: https://github.com/microyumcc/TFT_ILI9225_SPI
[linux]: https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/drivers/gpu/drm/tinydrm/ili9225.c

I was underwhelmed by the level of detail in the comments of either source, so after copying Tom's implementation, I rewrote it line by line following the documentation from [v0.22 of the Datasheet][datasheet] (which is marked as "Preliminary" but appears to be the latest version of the documentation for this device available), simplifying whatever parameters I couldn't find a justification for.

[datasheet]: https://www.displayfuture.com/Display/datasheet/controller/ILI9225.pdf

## In the SPI initialization routine, why do I say `spi.send` doesn't know how to send multiple characters at once?

https://github.com/nodemcu/nodemcu-firmware/blob/8181c3be7aed9f0a0ceb73ac8137c1a519e8a8e9/app/modules/spi.c#L149

https://github.com/nodemcu/nodemcu-firmware/pull/693 notes that `databits` used to be fixed to 8, so that would explain why this code seems to make that assumption (iterating byte by byte).

## Why does `clock_div` have an underscore in it but `cpufreq` doesn't?

I don't know, that's the way it is in the NodeMCU docs, I'm just going with what they have there.
